Docs (#11)
Observatory-Sciences/aravis-detector: docs/user/tutorials/build.md

# Build

This software is a plugin extension to Odin data and requires that you install and build both Odin-data and Odin-control to be able to utilize this project. This page will provide instructions for installing these as well as the Aravis library.

:::{note}

> This tutorial has been written for Ubuntu 22.4 Jellyfish. Compatibility with other Linux systems isn't guaranteed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial has been written for Ubuntu 22.04 Jellyfish. Compatibility with other Linux systems isn't guaranteed.
```

:::

## External Software Dependencies

The plugin has the following direct dependencies:

- [Aravis v0.8.31](https://github.com/AravisProject/aravis): used to interface with genicam cameras.

> - [Cmake v2.9](https://cmake.org/): used to generate the make files.

Reviewer: Is this particular version of cmake defined by Odin somehow? It's a really *really* old version. What is now known as "modern" cmake is v3+

Author: Changed the link and version (it's 2.8) to better reflect the actual version used.

> - [Cmake v2.8](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/v2.8.0/cmake.html): used to generate the make files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Cmake >= v2.9](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/v2.8.0/cmake.html): used to generate the make files.
```

Should be specified as a minimum version of cmake. See previous comment.
Also specify version 2.9 to be consistent with the README.md

  - [ZeroMQ](https://zeromq.org/) asynchronous message library.
  - [Log4CXX](https://logging.apache.org/log4cxx/latest_stable/)  message logs.
  - [HDF5](https://www.hdfgroup.org/HDF5) used in the file saver plugin.
- Aravis:
  - [Meson](https://mesonbuild.com/): build system
  - [GLib - 2.0](https://docs.gtk.org/glib/)
  - [GObject - 2.0](https://docs.gtk.org/gobject/)

## Installing sub-dependencies

To build all sub-dependencies you can run the following in your shell:

Odin Data:

```shell
sudo apt -y update
sudo apt install cmake python3.10-venv
sudo apt install libboost-program-options-dev libboost-filesystem-dev \
 libboost-date-time-dev libboost-dev libboost-system-dev \
 libboost-test-dev libboost-thread-dev libboost-regex-dev \
 libzmq3-dev libpcap-dev liblog4cxx-dev libblosc-dev \
 libhdf5-dev librdkafka-dev
```

Aravis:

```shell
sudo apt install ninja-build build-essential meson libxml2-dev libglib2.0-dev \
 libusb-1.0-0-dev gobject-introspection libgtk-3-dev \
 gtk-doc-tools xsltproc libgstreamer1.0-dev \
 libgstreamer-plugins-base1.0-dev \
 libgstreamer-plugins-good1.0-dev\
 libgirepository1.0-dev gettext
```

## Building Dependencies

> (Optional) It's useful to save the plugin an it's dependencies in same folder and create a virtual environment for the python server. Create a shortcut to this folder under the name "MAIN_DIR" as the rest of the guide utilizes it. Additionally you can create a temp folder for all the saved files. To do all this navigate to your desired location for the software and run the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's useful to store the plugin sources and its dependencies in same folder and create a virtual environment for the python server. Create a shortcut to this folder under the name "MAIN_DIR" as the rest of the guide utilizes it. Additionally you can create a temp folder for saving data files when testing. To do all this navigate to your desired location for the software and run the following:
```

> ```shellhttp://www.cmake.org

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```shell
```

Looks like an accidental copy'n pasta?

Author: Yep, I'm still not used to the copy paste functionality of the middle click button on Linux.

```shell
git clone https://github.com/AravisProject/aravis
git clone https://github.com/odin-detector/odin-control
git clone https://github.com/odin-detector/odin-data
git clone https://github.com/Observatory-Sciences/aravis-detector
```

Similar to "MAIN_DIR" short cut, the commands written here use a prefix and it's shortcut:

```shell
 mkdir prefixhttp://www.cmake.org
 PREFIX=$MAIN_DIR/prefix
```

### Build Odin-data

```shell
PREFIX=$MAIN_DIR/prefix
cd $MAIN_DIR/odin-data
mkdir build && cd build
cmake -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=$PREFIX ../cpp
make -j4 && make install
ls -la $PREFIX
```

Don't forget to modify the -j4 flag in make to however many cores you want to use (or leave it out altogether).

### Install Odin Control

> The use of a virtual python is recommended but not necessary:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The use of a virtual python is highly recommended:
```

```shell
cd $MAIN_DIR
source venv/bin/activate
pip install -e odin-control
odin_control
```

Then, from odin-data install the python adaptor:

```shell
pip install -e odin-data/python
pip install opencv-python
```

### Build Aravis

> Install [Aravis](https://aravisproject.github.io/aravis/building.html) and switch to version 0.8.30:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install [Aravis](https://aravisproject.github.io/aravis/aravis-stable/building.html) and switch to version 0.8.30:
```

404 page not found. Correcting URL

```shell
cd $MAIN_DIR/aravis

> git checkout 96cea98

Reviewer: ```suggestion
git checkout 0.8.30
```

Checking out the tag works just as well as the SHA - and is more memorable and readable.

```

Build it using meson:

```shell
meson setup --prefix=$PREFIX --build.pkg-config-path=$PC_ARAVIS build 
cd build
ninja
ninja install
```

To test your build:

```shell
meson test
cd src
arv-fake-gv-camera-0.8 -s GV02 -d all
```

> This should run 7 tests with no errors and then you will activate the simulated camera provided by Aravis. To connect to the camera you can use the aravis app. If connected to a genicam you shou1ld be able to see it listed as well.

Reviewer 2: Typo "shou1ld"

Author: Fixed typo. It escaped me because my spellchecker has been reporting every library name as an error so I missed this.

### Build aravis-detector

Run the following code to build the plugin library in the same directory as the rest of Odin:

```shell
 cd $MAIN_DIR/aravis-detector
 mkdir build && cd build
 cmake -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=$PREFIX -DODINDATA_ROOT_DIR=$PREFIX ../cpp
 make -j4 && make install
```

> Install the aravis server extension:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install the aravis server extension into the python virtualenv:
```

```shell
 source venv/bin/activate
 cd $MAIN_DIR/aravis-detector
 pip install -e python
```

> Install the Python CLI:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install the Python CLI into the virtualenv:
```
